With Dr. Greenhut, I remember his chuckling later
that Mr. Rutter gave him a long lecture about not
bringing in a bunch of conservatives. The
Department of Economics that I knew when I first
got here was very high in quality of its
instruction here. They were really good at the
undergraduate and master's level, but then here
came this group of senior scholars. The funding
for that was from normal A&M sources. They were not
a big gift. Was there any federal money that you
recall that made that possible? It was a mixed bag,
actually, Haskell. The primary source, of
course, was state funding, you know, from the
normal sources. But we did have some development
grants and outside money and things like that, and
federal money, too. You mentioned Tiger Teague's
contributions. He got us everything that he could
from the federal government, including his board
of faculty. students and so forth. Not only just
buildings. I mentioned only buildings, but
that's only a part of what he got for us. Did he have
any pet, any programs that were of highest
priority to him? You mean Tiger? Yes, sir. Oh,
yeah. I'm glad to see that the building recognizes
his real, he was really gung-ho on space, NASA. Ah,
yes, yes, yes. Yes, that's right.
He and LBGA got the center down at Houston. It was
probably primarily responsible. But he got us all
that money for the space building. It's called the
Tiger T. Well, you know, I don't have to tell you
that. In the 70s, my office was there a good bit
because the president's office was then across
the street. Now, that causes my mind to jump back to
organization. When Dr. Harrington retired, Mr.
Rutter became president of the system and of the
university. Well, officially, Dr. Harrington
didn't retire. He became director of foreign
programs. And at that time, when that happened,
yes, the board brought it about. Mr. Rutter was
appointed to both positions, same as Dr.
Harrington had held at one time. And so when you
went to him for a decision, you knew that it did not
need to go beyond his desk. Did it make the
institution function more efficiently? I think
so, because he and I were on the same wavelength and
team. He moved down to the system building, to the
chancellor's office, and left me in the Koch
building. Literally, without portfolio, I was
running A&M. at that time. Of course, he was
coordinating the whole thing. But we would meet
when he was in town weekly down in the system
building for at least an hour and a half every week.
And I would have the things I wanted him to bless and
discuss with him. And he would usually endorse
them, most of them. Your title did not change. Oh,
no. I was still Vice President for Academic
Affairs and Dean of the Graduate School. Mr.
Rutter wasn't a great believer in high-sounding
titles. But in fact, you were the... I was the
president of A&M in operation, right. I don't want
to make that claim. No, I hear you. The enrollment
was going up every year. The boom was coming.
Initially we built up graduate enrollment more
than we did undergraduate, but eventually
undergraduate enrollment took over. And now, of
course, it's in the ascendancy. Did any of the
programs move faster than you expected them to? I
was surprised. I don't know if it was faster than I
expected, but because of the tactics we were using
in chemistry as well as economics that you
mentioned, we brought in groups of people at once.
In other words, established an instant
department on the rise. Mostly these were senior
research scholars. We weren't looking for
outstanding teachers. Many of them were
excellent teachers too. Now I'm assuming that
didn't do it in other departments simply because
the resources. That was it mostly. Later I
convinced Mr. Rudder if we were going to ever be a
great university we had to have a strong level of
arts too and that's when we started to build it up
and now it's well recognized. Doing quite well.
Let's see. Do you remember any good Aggie story,
anecdotes that may have nothing to do with what
we've been talking about, just their good
recollections of? Well, Haskell, I'm not an
Aggie, you know, by graduation, only
affiliation. Neither am I. But I used to, the Aggie
stories that were told me, I would promptly forget
because I hated most of them. No, there's a lot of
them, but I can't think of any right now. But
particularly the ones that they would try to Make
A&M out as it dunks or something like that. No, but
do you remember any attempted pranks at Mr. Rutter
or anybody else that may not have gone off?
No, I'm sure there were some, and I probably knew
some at one time. Let me share one on Hannigan. The,
he was deeply concerned about the civilian
students walking across the drill field. Oh,
yeah. And they were wearing a path. So he gave
direction to somebody that they strung some slick
wire all the way around the drill field, around the
trees. And the first night, the wire was cut, of
course, into a zillion pieces. We had a committee
meeting the next day, and he couldn't figure out
where anybody could have gotten all those wire
cutters. And I said, well, I suspect they got the
pliers out of their pickup trucks. And he said
something to the effect, what, they carry pliers
with them in their truck? And I told him, yes, for a
farm boy or a ranch boy that was a normal And he was
kind of taken aback by that. Oh, it was Hannigan.
Yes, sir. Oh, yeah, Rudder would have known. Oh,
yeah, Mr. Rudder would have known. No, Rudder
wasn't in the room. No, I know that. No, Hannigan
was taken aback. All right, let's see. Getting
further along,
for you personally, of what are you most proud
during your A&M experience? The academic
programs in general and the faculty, the initial
faculty that we brought in that really
transformed A&M from a college, teaching
college, to a model university. Without
identifying names, but you know the names as well
as I do that were here. Is there anything? Really
the graduates, building up with the graduate
programs was probably my strongest thing that I
prized most. A lot of people would probably put
that secondary, but I wouldn't because research
and top teaching has always been my priority, and I
think they go hand in hand. In the run of events
during your years at A&M, which events did you
enjoy most?
Oh, seeing the aspirations and the dreams
develop, I guess, without singling out
individual ones. There's dozens of those. What
about, did you like commencements? No, frankly,
I'm not a crate, because as you and I both know,
you've heard one in commencement speech, you've
heard them all, or most. Occasionally there's one
that stimulates you and it's different, but most
of them are fairly rote and routine. No, I never
cared too much for the protocol or the formality of
academia.
I've decided that one, in being away for 17 years
and coming back, one of the important ingredients
to A&M's experience are a number of events that are
inclusive. fish camp, midnight yell practice,
muster, elephant walk, commencement where every
name is called, every hand is shaken, everybody
gets their moment in the spotlight. That those,
doesn't matter whether you're male or female,
whether you're rural or urban, Texas born or
anywhere else, there is that moment. And many,
many institutions have dropped the commencement
and now have a kind of a quick hereby confer upon you
to be seated. And it takes a long time here now with
three commencements in the spring and two in the
winter, but I think that's a good investment. I
think that's a tradition that's paid off. But to
respond to your query about the student
activities and the traditions that have
developed, all of which I honor and respect. I was
never deep into the student activities when I was
at A&M. Oh, I had students, sure. I had graduate
students. I had a lot of undergraduates that I
still remember fondly, but I never got involved
emotionally into the thing that really kicks me
off. Just going to the football stage with you to
hear the Aggie war half.
Okay, two more questions. Let's make believe that
somebody gave you a million dollar check that had
the stipulation you must give it to Texas A&M, but
you can decide the use of the benefit of that. What
would you give it for?
I would first do current research to find out
what's going on in certain activities that I have a
particular fondness for. And if I felt there was
sufficient evidence, then I would concentrate on
these areas, building up faculty, students, and
programs to the utmost in these areas.
Some of the other lasting values that most of the
former students think about after years of being
gone from here, I went indoors too, some of these
traditions. At the time that I was there, I wasn't
gung-ho about them, to be frank, but now I am. I
think they have value. Last question. What did it
mean to you, as you look back, what has it meant to
you that you came to Texas A&M back there in 1957?
No, no, no, no. It was in 48. 48, yes, yes. What did it
mean to you that you came here?
At that time or now? Now. Now, seeing what's
developed on the shores of the Brazos River over
here. No, just like Earl Rudder, I'm sure, from
above, he would be proud of what happened at A&M and
what's developed. And I'm glad that I had a part in
it. I'm not an Aggie, you will know. Well, I tell
people there are some of us that are Aggies by
choice. Yeah, that's what it is. We could have been
other places, and we chose here. And I want to thank
you for what you meant because I don't believe this
institution today would be what it is if you hadn't
been here. Well, thank you.